Now that we know how to not only react when a button is pressed but get some data from fields that the
user can fill in a final bit of the puzzle we get up fully interactive is to display some information
to the user.
And that's actually pretty easy to do.
We can do it with a single line of code using something called a toast and we'll see why it's called
a toast in a minute.
So I'm just going to add a single line of code here which says toast and I'm going to select the create
a new toast option and press enter.
And this will fill a lot of the code for me as well as import the host class.
So we use Toast Daut make text.
The context is the app itself where the toast is displayed.
So that's this.
Use this to refer to the app and then the text is what we want.
The toast to say.
And then we can decide whether we want the toast to appear for a short or long length of time using
length short or length long if we want.
And then we use dots show to show the text.
Simple as that.
So let's have a look and see how that actually displays on the screen.
If you're not an Android user it won't be a user interaction that you're familiar with because you don't
see this on iOS.
If I press the button now you can see it sort of pops up towards the bottom of the screen and pops up
is why it's called the toast.
In original versions of Android it sort of appeared from the bottom just like a bit of toast pops out
the toaster.
So that's the only new bit of information for these videos.
If you're feeling super confident about that you're welcome to jump to the next video.
But I would recommend you take my third and final challenge when it comes to interactivity.
Make sure you can put it all together.
And the challenge is to make this so it's pretty simple.
You can probably guess right away how it's going to work.
We've got what is your name has a simple text view at the top there and then you enter your name.
Click the button and a text appears that says hello.
And then whatever your name is.
Now that last bit is the challenge bit of the challenge because what we haven't done before is taken
a variable such as the contents of this text view and combined it with a string.
In this case the words hello.
So you're going to need to figure out how to take the word hello.
Add it to the name and then display both of them in a text.
So if you've done coding with another language that might be obvious how you do that or you may need
to do a little bit of googling to figure out how to do it.
Either way I think you'll be able to figure it out.
If not don't worry just watch along with the video and I'll show you how to get it done.
So best of luck as well.
All right.
Well here we go.
Item so create a new project this time I'm going to leave the old project going to show you that you
can have more than one once.
And this one we'll call a toast demo.
All the usual options.
Next Next finish.
And being able to just do this sort of thing without thinking is really why we're doing all these examples
so that you don't want them each time.
Oh was it that option or that option that is just there in your muscle memory to be able to create new
apps which are interactive just like that.
OK.
So let's start with the lay out.
Well get rid of the textfield get rid of protect as well.
OK.
So we'll start with a simple text fee which we haven't used for a couple of videos but they're of course
very simple
that will say What is your name.
It's going to really center that.
And then add in
the margins to look at emplace and then we'll use a plain text text field underneath that's OK for
leaving it there.
And
we'll make it full with
just change the right
constraint to 16 pixels at a top constraint which will link it to the text view.
And then finally we'll add our button.
Which will say
click me.
And add some constraints as well.
OK.
I've used all the default IDs there which I think is fine a text view edit text and bottom but you're
welcome to change things if you want the hand.
I'm going to add I didn't own click method.
Now will pull it button clicked.
All right.
So we need to do with layout.
So let's go with our code.
We're creating a public method that doesn't return anything.
It's called button clicked and it receives a single variable which is of a type view
and has a name view and it is in fact the button.
And then we'll start by getting the value of the user's name which you remember had an idea of edit
text so let's create an edit text called edit text and we're going to need to cast it or convert it
to an edit text and we're going to get it using fine V by ID.
The ID is our DOT ID dot at text.
And we're not going to log anything this time.
We're just going to use a toast and or use the code predicter to give me the the code for a toast so
to stop make text context.
Is this the app that we're in the text is going to be the name of the user.
So that's added text.
Don't get text and then will convert it to a string and then we'll have a short length again.
In fact that's changed too long just so that you can see the difference and then sharp.
Now the extra challenge which you maybe had to do a bit of googling for.
Or maybe if you've done coding for other platforms you knew how it worked is we need to combine two
strings.
So the first string is going to be hello and then we use a plus to combine that with the name.
So we get Halo and then don't forget the space.
Otherwise it will all run together as a single word.
And then we use a plus to combine that with the user's name.
So that's it.
That's from that.
So what we've done is added two lines of code to our button clicked method and that's all we need is
to get a completely interactive app which takes some data from the user.
They click a button.
It responds to that and then it gives some data back in the form of a text.
So let's see it in action
My name is Rob.
Click that.
Hello Rob.
We gave.
Simple as that.
So that went well for you and I hope you're starting to get the idea of how these two files work together
to control the layout and the functionality of your apps and also how you write some basic Java to make
your apps respond to things that they use that doesn't display data back to the user.
So we're almost there for the end of this first section.
We've just got one more thing to learn how to do and that is how to add images to make your apps look
far more exciting and inviting.
So we're going to learn how to do that in the next video and then we'll be able to make the big app
of this section the currency converter.